>> Anjana Vakil: What we're
gonna do in our next exercise is
think about how we would
create non-mutating
alternatives to some of
the mutating utilities
that we're used to working
with all the time.
So for example,
we're used to pushing elements to
an array that mutates the original array.
We're used to maybe popping something or
updating, assigning a new
value to a given index.
What would it feel like if we
couldn't do all that mutation,
what would we do differently?
How would we return instead of a original
object that's been changed in place,
how would we return a new value that we
can use to replace the original version?
So what we're gonna do is in arrays.js,
we're gonna implement these,
>> Anjana Vakil: Functions that
we are used to using as mutating array
methods in JavaScript like array.push,
array index = value, array.pop.
And we're gonna create kind
of functional equivalent,
not all exactly the same,
like pop doesn't return and it doesn't.
Anyway, but we're going to create the same
functionality without the mutation.
>> Anjana Vakil: And then, to do this
we're just gonna use regular data
structures, then we're just gonna
take a look at how we could.
>> Anjana Vakil: Make sure we're still not
doing that mutation on these operations,
but still use our old APIs.
So first step, we're gonna take in this
arrays.js, these little stubbed functions,
and we will implement them
such that these tests pass.
So for example,
if my original array was 1, 2, 3,
and I call push4 on the original,
pushed should be 1,
2, 3, 4, but
original should still be 1, 2, 3.
Unlike if I were to call original.push4,
in which case, original now has a 4 in it,
sucks to be you if you were expecting
it to only have three elements.
So, if we can get these tests to pass
with our non-mutating versions of these.
We will have satisfied a little tiny
part of our functional programming
hearts that really feels uncomfortable
when we're mutating data.
>> Anjana Vakil: Let's start with push,
shall we?
So again, we wanna take an array with
a bunch of stuff and a new element and
return an array with all the original
stuff, but also the new element.
Anyone care to walk me through
what they would do for this?
>> Speaker 2: You can just
concat them together.
>> Anjana Vakil: I could concat,
>> Speaker 2: The array and the element.
>> Anjana Vakil: I'm not sure if I have
access to this right now, but yes,
I could concat them together,
the array, and
then,
>> Speaker 2: The element.
>> Anjana Vakil: The element.
>> Speaker 2: But
if we using our other function,
the element has to be an array too.
>> Anjana Vakil: Concat operates on
arrays, right, and this would be the same,
I could also use the built-in
array.concat, but
I don't wanna concatenate
it with an element.
That's not gonna work,
I wanna concatenate it with an array
that has that element in it.
This is just the built-in
array.concat which, again, our little
helper was a wrapper around to just make
it feel less object-oriented of an API.
But that is totally one way that
we could do it, using concat,
is there a way that we
could do it without concat?
>> Speaker 3: Return a new array,
first spreading the array,
and then comma the element.
>> Anjana Vakil: So we also have our
spread operator, which we said kind of
spreads out all the elements of an array
into the context where it's used.
And so here, dot, dot, dot, array is sort
of all of those things, plus element.
>> Anjana Vakil: Yeah, so this is gonna
be each element of the original array and
my new element spread out into
a new array.How about pop?
So in the JavaScript method,
it's gonna return the last element here,
but here, what we wanna do is
if I call pop on an array,
I don't care about the last
element that's just gone.
I want an array that has all
the same stuff from the original,
except the last element.
So kind of the inverse, yeah,
of the push, pop, push, okay.
How about this one?
>> Speaker 2: Slice it.
>> Anjana Vakil: We could slice it, we saw
before we had that array.slice, right?
>> Anjana Vakil: And then, we can look
up the documentation of array slice,
it's like zero.
And so, we're gonna start at zero and
we're gonna slice the whole rest of
the array, but then, the second argument,
if we give it a negative one.
It will stop before it gets
all the way through the array,
that's just the documentation here.
But we could also imagine
a way to do this with our
little helpers from before theoretically,
I'll leave that as an exercise for
the reader.
Instead of using slice, for example,
use head and tail to figure this out?
I don't know, let's find out,
but this is a totally legit
implementation because if we hop
over to our friend mdnrslice,
we will be able to look up whether or
not this actually works.
Actually mutates the array
that I'm calling it
on to see if I can rely on it or not.
And so we have a sort of gotcha here
where it does give me a new array.
I just have to be a little careful
if I'm dealing with deeply nested,
complex data with these simple
values like numbers and things,
we are probably okay, but
array slice is a shallow copy.
It's not like a deep copy,
which would make sure that, if like,
let's say the array includes an array,
are we just pointing to that same array,
or are we making a copy
of that inner array?
Anyway, so when in doubt, check MDN,
see if the operation you're trying to
do is a mutating operation or not.